Homework Assignment - Lesson 6 Instructions
Objective: 

Develop a program with selection structure constructs in C++ programming.


Assignment:

1) Consider the following computer programming problem:

Hammerschlag Corp needs a program to help compute raises for their employees. When the program begins, the user will be prompted to enter a current salary. T,hen a raise will be computed according to the following table:

Old Salary
Raise
up to $14,999.99	5%
$15,000.00 to $49,999.99	7%
$50,000.00 to $99,999.99	10%
$100,000.00 and higher	  15%
After the raise is determined, it will be added to the current salary to give the new salary. There will be 2 outputs - the raise and the new salary, then the program will stop.

For example, if a current salary of $35200.00 were entered, the program would display:  You will receive a raise of $2464.00, for a new yearly salary of $37664.00 .(You can use this for test data.)

Notes:

    * Money data input and output should handle/show decimals.  Show a dollar sign on the input prompt, and on the output - along with 2 decimal places only.
    * Use no "commas" for larger numbers though. (i.e. $123456.00  not $123,456.00)
    * Remember that dollar signs are for display only - you CANNOT use dollar signs inside IF statements!
    * Don't worry about rounding, ignore that.
    * Obviously, you need to use a series of  IF  statements to process the raise.
        * There are 2 ways to do that - either a series of several separate IF statements each using a logic function (AND, or && in C++)
            OR
        * You may nest the IF statements, in which case you do not need, and may not use any logic functions.
        * Pick ONE of these and do it, if you mix nesting with logic you will overcomplicate the problem and will lose points.
    * Your Instructor will not test your program with any inputs other than numeric values, so no error checking at all is needed - and none is allowed.
    * Do not declare any constants in the program - they are not needed.
    * Remember good coding standards - appropriate variable names and good comments, and an easy to read (well-spaced) program..


2) Write up an IPO chart for this problem. Be sure to have an "Input, Processing, Output and Algorithm" part.

3) Desk-check your solution. 

The following grading standard will be used for your IPO chart:

Requirement
Max Points
Input section present and correct	  3
Processing section present and correct
 2
Output section present and correct	  3
Good choices of variable names
2
Algorithm complete and correct
15
Total	 25
  

4) Make a folder on your computer called Lesson6Homework.
  
5) Type up your IPO in a word processor for submission. Use the following format:

    (At the top of the page)
    Your name (and your partners' name, if you have one)
    Intro to Programming - C++
    Homework Assignment  - Lesson 6
    Today’s date

    (Then skip 2 lines)

        Input..

        Processing..

        Output..

        Algorithm..

        One under the other.

6) Save your work in a file called HwkLesson6IPO in the Lesson6Homework folder

7) Create a new project in Visual C++ Express. Call it salaryProject and place it in the Lesson6Homework folder. 

8) Click Project then Add New Item to make the area where you can enter the C++ code.
        * Call the C++ program HwkLesson6Code - that is, you are creating a new file called HwkLesson6Code.cpp
        * Be sure you include your name (and your partners' name) in a comment block at the top
   
9) Using the IPO as a guide, as before, develop and enter the C++ program. Be sure to save all when you are complete.

10) Compile your program. Correct any errors until the compile is successful.

11)  Execute your program and test it to be sure it works and produces the correct result.

The following grading standard will be used for your C++ program:

Item
Result
Program partially written (incomplete)
 5 points total credit, maximum
Program written but does not compile
7 points total credit, maximum
Program executes with output errors (i.e produces no answer or wrong answer)	 10 points total credit maximum


Program executes with correct output
15 points + credit below
Good comments added
5 points
Program is easy to read and follow, good spacing and style (IF statements nested)
5 points
Total credit maximum possible if your program executes with correct output
25 points


Completion and Submission:

1) If you are working with a partner, you EACH need to do this - not just ONE of you.

2) Submit BOTH your HwkLesson6IPO and HwkLesson6Code.cpp files to be graded. Use this process:

    1) Click the Assignments button.
    2) Click the link for Homework Assignment - Lesson 6 .
    3) Scroll down below the end of these instructions.
    4) Find and click the Homework Assignment  - Lesson 6 link. (look for the message "this is where you submit" to help you find it.)
    5) You will see a Preview Upload Assignment screen
    6) Scroll down to 2. Assignment Materials .
    7) Scroll below the Submission area (large text box).
    8) Find the Attach File area.
    9) Click on the Browse My Computer button.
    10)  A Choose file to upload dialog box will pop up.
    11)  Browse to find your IPO file and highlight it. 
    12)  Click Open .
    13) You will now see your file appear in the Attached Files area.
    14) Click on the Browse My Computer button again.
    15)  A Choose file to upload dialog box will pop up again.
    16)  Browse to find your .cpp file and highlight it. 
    17)  Click Open .
    18) You will now see your other file appear in the Attached Files area.
    19) Scroll all the way down to the bottom  of the window, click Submit in the right corner.
    20) When you see the Review Submission History screen pop up, click on OK.
         * (If you made an error, you can click on Start New Submission and try again).
  
    Your files will now be sent in for grading. Your Instructor will review your IPO and download/execute the .cpp program. 

3) Check the gradebook a few days after posting for your score and comments from your Instructor, if any.   
    * If you submit early, you may not see a grade until shortly after the due date so please be patient.
    * You may get a returned file of your IPO with comments if needed.
    * Comments about just your code will be included with your grade in the gradebook as well.
    * Most students get both of the above, expect that unless you got a very high score.
    * A partial solution to this assignment (IPO only) will be provided after the deadline has passed.

This is the End of Homework Assignment - Lesson 6